doc/low-level.md, before:



<a name="top"></a>
## Terminal's Low-level and Basic *chainable* Methods

This section is about low-level methods of `Terminal` instances.

**NOTE:** In the following code sample, `term` is always a `Terminal` instance.

Basic methods map low-level terminal capabilities.

For all the functions below, additional arguments can be provided.

If a boolean is provided, it will turn the feature *on* or *off*.
For example `term.red( true )` turn all subsequent output in red, while `term.red( false )` disable red and go back
to default color.

Without arguments, it is always the same as *true*, e.g. `term.red()` do the same thing than `term.red()`.

Some function cannot be turned off, they just perform an action.
For example `term.reset()` reset the terminal, usually to its default.
This is not reversible, thus `term.reset( false )` does nothing.

If the additional argument is a string, then it will be sent to the output directly after turning *on* the feature... then the
feature is turn *off*.
That's it:  
`term.red( 'Hello world!' )`  
... is the same as:  
`term.red( true ) ; term( 'Hello world!' ) ; term.red( false ) ;`.

Also those string support a printf()-like formatting syntax.  
So we can do `term.red( "My name is %s, I'm %d." , 'Jack' , 32 )` to output *"My name is Jack, I'm 32."* in red.

**New:** since *v0.16.x*, style markup are supported as a shorthand.
Style markup are introduced by a caret `^` followed by another character.
Colors are produced by the first letter of its name, e.g. red is produced with a `^r`, except black which is produced by `^k`.
Other styles are produced with a symbol. For example `^_` switch to underline.
To remove all styles, `^:` or `^ ` can be used.
A style reset is always produced at the end of the string as soon as one style markup was used.

Those two lines produce the same result:
```js
term( "My name is " ).red( "Jack" )( " and I'm " ).green( "32\n" ) ;
term( "My name is ^rJack^ and I'm ^g32\n" ) ;
```

See [the full style markup reference](https://github.com/cronvel/string-kit#ref.format.markup) for details.



All those functions are chainable, and their arguments can be combined.
We can do:  
`term.moveTo.red( 1 , 1 , "My name is %s, I'm %d.\n" , 'Jack' , 32  )`
which will move the cursor to (1,1), then output *"My name is Jack, I'm 32."* in red.



## Table of Contents

* [Colors](#ref.colors)
* [Background Colors](#ref.bgColors)
* [Styles](#ref.styles)
* [Moving the cursor](#ref.movingCursor)
* [Editing the screen](#ref.editingScreen)
* [Input/Output](#ref.io)
* [Misc](#ref.misc)



<a name="ref.colors"></a>
### Foreground colors

* .defaultColor(): back to the default foreground color
* .black(): ...
* .red(): ...
* .green(): ...
* .yellow(): dark yellow, most of time brown or orange
* .blue(): ...
* .magenta(): ...
* .cyan(): ...
* .white(): ...
* .brightBlack(): ...
* .brightRed(): ...
* .brightGreen(): ...
* .brightYellow(): true yellow
* .brightBlue(): ...
* .brightMagenta(): ...
* .brightCyan(): ...
* .brightWhite(): ...
* .color(register): choose between 16 colors using an 0..15 integer
* .darkColor(register): choose between 8 regular (dark) colors using an 0..7 integer
* .brightColor(register): choose between 8 bright colors using an 0..7 integer
* .color256(register): if the terminal support 256 colors, it chooses between them using an 0..255 integer
* .colorRgb(r,g,b): pick the closest match for an RGB value (from a 16 or 256 colors palette or even the 
	exact color if the terminal support 24 bits colors), *r,g,b* are in the 0..255 range
* .colorGrayscale(l): pick the closest match for a grayscale value (from a 16 or 256 colors palette or
	even the exact color if the terminal support 24 bits colors), *l* is in the 0..255 range



<a name="ref.bgColors"></a>
### Background colors

* .bgDefaultColor(): back to the default background color
* .bgBlack(): ...
* .bgRed(): ...
* .bgGreen(): ...
* .bgYellow(): dark yellow, most of time brown or orange
* .bgBlue(): ...
* .bgMagenta(): ...
* .bgCyan(): ...
* .bgWhite(): ...
* .bgDarkColor(): ...
* .bgBrightBlack(): ...
* .bgBrightRed(): ...
* .bgBrightGreen(): ...
* .bgBrightYellow(): true yellow
* .bgBrightBlue(): ...
* .bgBrightMagenta(): ...
* .bgBrightCyan(): ...
* .bgColor(register): choose between 16 colors using an 0..15 integer
* .bgBrightWhite(): choose between 8 regular (dark) colors using an 0..7 integer
* .bgBrightColor(): choose between 8 bright colors using an 0..7 integer
* .bgColor256(register): if the terminal support 256 colors, it choose between them using an 0..255 integer
* .bgColorRgb(r,g,b): pick the closest match for an RGB value (from a 16 or 256 colors palette or even the
	exact color if the terminal support 24 bits colors) as the background color, *r,g,b* are in the 0..255 range
* .bgColorGrayscale(l): pick the closest match for a grayscale value (from a 16 or 256 colors palette or even
	the exact color if the terminal support 24 bits colors) as the background color, *l* is in the 0..255 range



<a name="ref.styles"></a>
### Styles

* .styleReset(): reset all styles and go back to default colors
* .bold(): bold text
* .dim(): faint color
* .italic(): italic
* .underline(): underline
* .blink(): blink text, not widely supported
* .inverse(): foreground and background color
* .hidden(): invisible, but can be copy/paste'd
* .strike(): strike through



<a name="ref.movingCursor"></a>
### Moving the Cursor

* .saveCursor(): save cursor position
* .restoreCursor(): restore a previously saved cursor position
* .up(n): move the cursor 'n' chars up
* .down(n): move the cursor 'n' chars down
* .right(n): move the cursor 'n' chars right
* .left(n): move the cursor 'n' chars left
* .nextLine(n): move the cursor to beginning of the line, 'n' lines down
* .previousLine(n): move the cursor to beginning of the line, 'n' lines up
* .column(x): move the cursor to column x
* .scrollUp(n): scroll whole page up by 'n' lines, new lines are added at the bottom, the absolute cursor position do not change (Linux Console don't support it)
* .scrollDown(n): scroll whole page down by 'n' lines, new lines are added at the top, the absolute cursor position do not change (Linux Console don't support it)
* .moveTo(x,y): move the cursor to the (x,y) coordinate (1,1 is the upper-left corner)
* .move(x,y): relative move of the cursor
* .hideCursor(): hide/show the cursor



<a name="ref.editingScreen"></a>
### Editing the Screen

* .clear(): clear the screen and move the cursor to the upper-left corner
* .eraseDisplayBelow(): erase everything below the cursor
* .eraseDisplayAbove(): erase everything above the cursor
* .eraseDisplay(): erase everything
* .eraseLineAfter(): erase current line after the cursor
* .eraseLineBefore(): erase current line before the cursor
* .eraseLine(): erase current line
* .insertLine(n): insert n lines
* .deleteLine(n): delete n lines
* .insert(n): insert n char after (like the INSERT key)
* .delete(n): delete n char after (like the DELETE key)
* .backDelete(): delete one char backward (like the BACKSPACE key), shorthand composed by a .left(1)
  followed by a .delete(1)
* .alternateScreenBuffer(): this set/unset the alternate screen buffer, many terminal do not support it or inhibit it



<a name="ref.io"></a>
### Input/Output

* .requestCursorLocation(): request the cursor location, a 'terminal' event will be fired when available
* .requestScreenSize(): **DEPRECATED** request for screen size, a 'terminal' event will be fired when available,
	**DO NOT USE**: use .width and .height instead, those properties are updated whenever a resize event is received
* .requestColor(n): **rarely useful** request for color *n*, **DO NOT USE**: use high-level .getColor() instead
* .applicationKeypad(): should allow keypad to send different code than 0..9 keys, not widely supported



<a name="ref.internal-io"></a>
### Internal input/output (do not use directly, use grabInput() instead)

* .mouseButton(): ask the terminal to send event when a mouse button is pressed, with the mouse cursor position
* .mouseDrag(): ask the terminal to send event when a mouse button is pressed and when draging, with the mouse cursor position
* .mouseMotion(): ask the terminal to send all mouse event, even mouse motion that occurs without buttons
* .mouseSGR(): another mouse protocol that extend coordinate mapping (without it, it supports only 223 rows and columns)
* .focusEvent(): ask the terminal to send event when it gains and loses focus, not widely supported



<a name="ref.misc"></a>
### Misc

* .reset(): full reset of the terminal
* .error(): it just set error to true so it will write to STDERR instead of STDOUT
* .str(): do not output anything, instead return a string containing the sequences
* .bell(): emit an audible bell
* .noFormat(str): disable string formatting - useful when your string may contain `%` (e.g. user input) and you
	don't want to escape them
* .windowTitle(str): set the title of an xterm-compatible window to *str*
* .setCursorColor(register): set the cursor color to one of the 256 *register*
* .setCursorColorRgb(r,g,b): set the cursor color to a custom RGB value
* .setDefaultColorRgb(r,g,b): set the value of the default foreground color
* .setDefaultBgColorRgb(): set the value of the default background color, this is the terminal window background

Commit message:

Breaking change: the long-time deprecated (since v0.16.0) 'SCREEN_RESIZE' sub-type of the 'terminal' event is dropped, in favor of the 'resize' event. Documentation improved.

doc/low-level.md, after:



<a name="top"></a>
## Terminal's Low-level and Basic *chainable* Methods

This section is about low-level methods of `Terminal` instances.

**NOTE:** In the following code sample, `term` is always a `Terminal` instance.

Basic methods map low-level terminal capabilities.

For all the functions below, additional arguments can be provided.

If a boolean is provided, it will turn the feature *on* or *off*.
For example `term.red( true )` turn all subsequent output in red, while `term.red( false )` disable red and go back
to default color.

Without arguments, it is always the same as *true*, e.g. `term.red()` do the same thing than `term.red( true )`.

Some function cannot be turned off, they just perform an action.
For example `term.reset()` reset the terminal, usually to its default.
This is not reversible, thus `term.reset( false )` does nothing.

If the additional argument is a string, then it will turn *on* the feature, output the string and finally turn *off* the feature.
That's it:  
`term.red( 'Hello world!' )`  
... is the same as:  
`term.red( true ) ; term( 'Hello world!' ) ; term.red( false ) ;`.

<a name="ref.chainable"></a>
#### Style Mixing and Chainable

Also styles can be mixed, using a nice syntax: simply chain all style and color properties!
This will output *“Hello world!”* in red, bold and italic, on a blue background:
`term.red.bgBlue.bold.italic( 'Hello world!' )`  
By the way, the order doesn't matter, so this is strictly equivalent:
`term.bgBlue.italic.bold.red( 'Hello world!' )`  

All the following functions are chainable, and their arguments can be combined.
We can do:  
`term.moveTo.red( 1 , 1 , "My name is %s, I'm %d.\n" , 'Jack' , 32  )`
which will move the cursor to (1,1), then output *“My name is Jack, I'm 32.”* in red.

<a name="ref.string-formatting"></a>
#### String Formatting

Also those string support a printf()-like formatting syntax.  
So we can do `term.red( "My name is %s, I'm %d." , 'Jack' , 32 )` to output *“My name is Jack, I'm 32.”* in red.

<a name="ref.style-markup"></a>
#### Style Markup

Style markup are introduced by a caret `^` followed by another character.
Colors are produced by the first letter of its name, e.g. red is produced with a `^r`, except black which is produced by `^k`.
Other styles are produced with a symbol. For example `^_` switch to underline.
To remove all styles, `^:` or `^ ` can be used.
A style reset is always produced at the end of the string as soon as one style markup was used.

Those two lines produce the same result:
```js
term( "My name is " ).red( "Jack" )( " and I'm " ).green( "32\n" ) ;
term( "My name is ^rJack^ and I'm ^g32\n" ) ;
```

See [the full style markup reference](https://github.com/cronvel/string-kit#ref.format.markup) for details.



## Table of Contents

* [Colors](#ref.colors)
* [Background Colors](#ref.bgColors)
* [Styles](#ref.styles)
* [Moving the cursor](#ref.movingCursor)
* [Editing the screen](#ref.editingScreen)
* [Input/Output](#ref.io)
* [Misc](#ref.misc)



<a name="ref.colors"></a>
### Foreground colors

* .defaultColor(): back to the default foreground color
* .black(): ...
* .red(): ...
* .green(): ...
* .yellow(): dark yellow, most of time brown or orange
* .blue(): ...
* .magenta(): ...
* .cyan(): ...
* .white(): ...
* .brightBlack(): ...
* .brightRed(): ...
* .brightGreen(): ...
* .brightYellow(): true yellow
* .brightBlue(): ...
* .brightMagenta(): ...
* .brightCyan(): ...
* .brightWhite(): ...
* .color(register): choose between 16 colors using an 0..15 integer
* .darkColor(register): choose between 8 regular (dark) colors using an 0..7 integer
* .brightColor(register): choose between 8 bright colors using an 0..7 integer
* .color256(register): if the terminal support 256 colors, it chooses between them using an 0..255 integer
* .colorRgb(r,g,b): pick the closest match for an RGB value (from a 16 or 256 colors palette or even the 
	exact color if the terminal support 24 bits colors), *r,g,b* are in the 0..255 range
* .colorGrayscale(l): pick the closest match for a grayscale value (from a 16 or 256 colors palette or
	even the exact color if the terminal support 24 bits colors), *l* is in the 0..255 range



<a name="ref.bgColors"></a>
### Background colors

* .bgDefaultColor(): back to the default background color
* .bgBlack(): ...
* .bgRed(): ...
* .bgGreen(): ...
* .bgYellow(): dark yellow, most of time brown or orange
* .bgBlue(): ...
* .bgMagenta(): ...
* .bgCyan(): ...
* .bgWhite(): ...
* .bgDarkColor(): ...
* .bgBrightBlack(): ...
* .bgBrightRed(): ...
* .bgBrightGreen(): ...
* .bgBrightYellow(): true yellow
* .bgBrightBlue(): ...
* .bgBrightMagenta(): ...
* .bgBrightCyan(): ...
* .bgColor(register): choose between 16 colors using an 0..15 integer
* .bgBrightWhite(): choose between 8 regular (dark) colors using an 0..7 integer
* .bgBrightColor(): choose between 8 bright colors using an 0..7 integer
* .bgColor256(register): if the terminal support 256 colors, it choose between them using an 0..255 integer
* .bgColorRgb(r,g,b): pick the closest match for an RGB value (from a 16 or 256 colors palette or even the
	exact color if the terminal support 24 bits colors) as the background color, *r,g,b* are in the 0..255 range
* .bgColorGrayscale(l): pick the closest match for a grayscale value (from a 16 or 256 colors palette or even
	the exact color if the terminal support 24 bits colors) as the background color, *l* is in the 0..255 range



<a name="ref.styles"></a>
### Styles

* .styleReset(): reset all styles and go back to default colors
* .bold(): bold text
* .dim(): faint color
* .italic(): italic
* .underline(): underline
* .blink(): blink text, not widely supported
* .inverse(): foreground and background color
* .hidden(): invisible, but can be copy/paste'd
* .strike(): strike through



<a name="ref.movingCursor"></a>
### Moving the Cursor

* .saveCursor(): save cursor position
* .restoreCursor(): restore a previously saved cursor position
* .up(n): move the cursor 'n' chars up
* .down(n): move the cursor 'n' chars down
* .right(n): move the cursor 'n' chars right
* .left(n): move the cursor 'n' chars left
* .nextLine(n): move the cursor to beginning of the line, 'n' lines down
* .previousLine(n): move the cursor to beginning of the line, 'n' lines up
* .column(x): move the cursor to column x
* .scrollUp(n): scroll whole page up by 'n' lines, new lines are added at the bottom, the absolute cursor position do not change (Linux Console don't support it)
* .scrollDown(n): scroll whole page down by 'n' lines, new lines are added at the top, the absolute cursor position do not change (Linux Console don't support it)
* .moveTo(x,y): move the cursor to the (x,y) coordinate (1,1 is the upper-left corner)
* .move(x,y): relative move of the cursor
* .hideCursor(): hide/show the cursor



<a name="ref.editingScreen"></a>
### Editing the Screen

* .clear(): clear the screen and move the cursor to the upper-left corner
* .eraseDisplayBelow(): erase everything below the cursor
* .eraseDisplayAbove(): erase everything above the cursor
* .eraseDisplay(): erase everything
* .eraseLineAfter(): erase current line after the cursor
* .eraseLineBefore(): erase current line before the cursor
* .eraseLine(): erase current line
* .insertLine(n): insert n lines
* .deleteLine(n): delete n lines
* .insert(n): insert n char after (like the INSERT key)
* .delete(n): delete n char after (like the DELETE key)
* .backDelete(): delete one char backward (like the BACKSPACE key), shorthand composed by a .left(1)
  followed by a .delete(1)
* .alternateScreenBuffer(): this set/unset the alternate screen buffer, many terminal do not support it or inhibit it



<a name="ref.io"></a>
### Input/Output

* .requestCursorLocation(): request the cursor location, a 'terminal' event will be fired when available
* .requestScreenSize(): **DEPRECATED** request for screen size, a 'terminal' event will be fired when available,
	**DO NOT USE**: use .width and .height instead, those properties are updated whenever a resize event is received
* .requestColor(n): **rarely useful** request for color *n*, **DO NOT USE**: use high-level .getColor() instead
* .applicationKeypad(): should allow keypad to send different code than 0..9 keys, not widely supported



<a name="ref.internal-io"></a>
### Internal input/output (do not use directly, use grabInput() instead)

* .mouseButton(): ask the terminal to send event when a mouse button is pressed, with the mouse cursor position
* .mouseDrag(): ask the terminal to send event when a mouse button is pressed and when draging, with the mouse cursor position
* .mouseMotion(): ask the terminal to send all mouse event, even mouse motion that occurs without buttons
* .mouseSGR(): another mouse protocol that extend coordinate mapping (without it, it supports only 223 rows and columns)
* .focusEvent(): ask the terminal to send event when it gains and loses focus, not widely supported



<a name="ref.misc"></a>
### Misc

* .reset(): full reset of the terminal
* .error(): it just set error to true so it will write to STDERR instead of STDOUT
* .str(): do not output anything, instead return a string containing the sequences
* .bell(): emit an audible bell
* .noFormat(str): disable string formatting - useful when your string may contain `%` (e.g. user input) and you
	don't want to escape them
* .windowTitle(str): set the title of an xterm-compatible window to *str*
* .setCursorColor(register): set the cursor color to one of the 256 *register*
* .setCursorColorRgb(r,g,b): set the cursor color to a custom RGB value
* .setDefaultColorRgb(r,g,b): set the value of the default foreground color
* .setDefaultBgColorRgb(): set the value of the default background color, this is the terminal window background
